---
title: "Writing"
date: 2011-09-24 00:00
---

<p>Writing is magical thing that I've enjoyed, since I was a kid. I've always been creative, but I struggled at creating in a freeform environment. What I mean is that writing gave me the building blocks to be creative where drawing, which I tried but struggled with, gave me only a blank piece of paper.
Writing starts with words and you put some words with some other words, following syntax and grammar, and you have a sentence. Combine those and you have a paragraph. Or a sonnet, or lyric. Writing gave me building blocks to work with and that's probably why I enjoyed it in the same way that I enjoyed playing with LEGO. I was creating something out of other things.</p>

<p>Even as a musician, I used building blocks. Improvising on a jazz piece, to me, was a matter of playing notes that fit with the chord progression or blues scale of the piece. If you played a wrong note, as my music teacher taught me, play it again a few times. Then it sounds like it belongs there.</p>

<p>Eventually I started writing software, and that's when things got really fun. And profitable. See, no one has ever paid me to write words, but people <em>do</em> pay for me to write software.</p>

<p>Writing software is really like describing a conversation you want to hear. If you make a mistake, the CAGradientLayer's setColors: sentence is brutally interrupted by a null pointer exception (how rude).</p>

<p>I still enjoy writing words even though I'm paid to write code. Both give me building blocks I can combine to make something beautiful. No one would argue that relying on the pre-made blocks of <em>words</em> makes a writer any less of an artist. I would argue the same applies for good software writers. When you have an abstract idea and you <em>make it</em> into something concrete and beautiful, that's art whether you've sculpted a statue or built an intuitive interface.</p>

<p>And I still suck at drawing.</p>

<!-- more -->

